Introduction Recitation

Bhante, let the Sangha listen to me.

Today is Uposatha the 15th. [the 14th]

If the Sangha is ready the Sangha should do Uposatha, should recite the Patimokkha. What about the preliminary duties of the Sangha?

Venerables, do announce [your] complete purity, I shell recite the Patimokkha.

Let all of us present carefully listen [and] pay attention to it.

For whom there may be an offense he should reveal it; in the absence of an offense, one is to be silent.

Now, by being silent I shell know the Venerables are “completely pure”.

Now, just as one who has been individually questioned has an answer,  likewise in such an assembly
[when it*] has been repeatedly proclaimed up to the third time.

Should any bhikkhu, when it is being repeatedly proclaimed up to the third time, not reveal an existing offense that he remembers, there is false speech in full awareness for him.

Now, Venerables, false speech in full awareness has been said by the Blessed One to be an obstructive thing.

Therefore, an existing offense is to be revealed by the bhikkhu who has offended, remembers and seek purification.

When revealed, it is a comfort to him.

Recited, venerables, is the introduction.


Therein I ask the venerables,
so, are you completely pure?
For the second time too, I ask:
so, are you completely pure?
For the third time too, I ask
so, are you completely pure?

Completely pure the venerables are, therefore silent.
Thus I bear this in mind .

Nidāna has ended . [The introduction has ended.]

Pārājika Recitation
Therein, the four pārājika1 matters
come up for recitation.
The Training Rule about Sexual Intercourse
Should any bhikkhu who has undertaken the bhikkhus’ training and livelihood—
without having given up the training,
without having declared his weakness
—engage in sexual intercourse,
even to the extent of with a female animal,
he is defeated, not in communion.
The Training Rule about Taking what is not Given
Should any bhikkhu
take, with a thieving mind, what is not given from the village or from the forest;
as in the taking of what is not given of such nature that kings, having arrested the robber,
would torture, imprison
or banish [him,
saying,] “You’re a robber, you’re a fool,
you’re gone astray, you’re a thief,”
the bhikkhu taking what is not given
of that nature,
he too is defeated, not in communion.
The Training Rule about a Human Being
Should any bhikkhu
intentionally deprive
a human being of life,
or seek a [life-]taking weapon for him, or praise the virtue of death,
or incite [him] to die,
[saying,] “Hey, man!
What use to you is this wretched, difficult life?
Death is better for you than life,”
with such a thought in mind, such an intention in mind, should he in various ways
praise the virtue of death
or incite [him] to die,
he too is defeated, not in communion.
The Training Rule about Superhuman State
Should any bhikkhu,
without realising
a superhuman state,
a noble knowledge and vision capable [of purification],
declare referring to oneself,
“Thus I know, thus I see,”
then, on a later occasion,
whether being cross-examined
or not being cross-examined,
should the offender seeking purification
say thus,
“Not knowing thus, friend, I said I know.
Not seeing, [I said] I see.
I vainly blathered falsehood,”
except in overestimation,
he too is defeated, not in communion.


Recited, venerables,
are the four pārājika matters.
A bhikkhu having committed
whichever of these
does not get
communion with the bhikkhus.
Just as before,
so is [he] afterwards:
he is defeated, not in communion.
Therein, I ask the venerables, “Now then, are you pure in this?” For the second time, I ask, “Now then, are you pure in this?” For the third time, I ask, “Now then, are you pure in this?” The venerables are pure in this, therefore are silent; thus do I bear that in mind.
Pārājika has ended.
 
